# LANNON-Python-Portfolio
Welcome to my Python Portfolio! This repository is for display of my data science portfolio and other notable projects from the Elements of Computing II 2025 Spring Semester. Included are the following...
## 1. 2023 Baby Names: 
A Streamlit app that allows users to sort through the most popular baby names of 2023. Applications used: Python, Pandas, Streamlit. Project 1 is a fun and basic introduction to the portfolio. It uses core data analysis tools in Pandas demonstrating a funamental understanding of ways to present data. Project one is a demonstration of the difference that can be made by organizing data, even with basic coding tools. With a few functions, an unreadable dataset becomes much more comprehensive and engaging. Link: [Project 1 Repository](basic-streamlit-app)
   
## 2. Tidy Data Project:
Cleaning, transforming, and visualizing data using principles of tidy data. Applications used: Python, Pandas, Matplotlib. Project 2 continues on the same theme as project one, now going one step further with data organization. In order to do more complex things with a dataset, it is essential to standardize or "tidy" it. This important distinction between wide and long data is introduced with this project. Project two also offers more visualizations and also pivot tables, to show the different ways you can make data more readable. Visualizations are great for quickly viewing trends, but pivot tables can also be extremely insightful as the dataset can be rearranged to focus in on particular variables. Link: [Project 2 Repository](TidyData-Project) 

## 3. NER Email Analyzer:
A Streamlit app that allows users to analyze their email compositions using SpaCy's built in entity analysis labels along with any custom labels they wish to create. Furthermore, the app assigns a conciseness score to the composition based on the ratio of filler words. This app demonstrates basic, fundamental natural language processing skills. This is a unique and very effective way of analyzing string data, a task which is difficult to do using the methods seen in the other portfolio projects. Link: [Project 3 Repository](NERStreamlitApp)

## 4. Design Research Oriented Sentiment Analyzer:
As a design major, understanding user feedback across different demographics is absolutely vital to creating successful designs. This app allows users to upload their feedback to be examined using natural language processing. The app shows you which words came up most in user reviews, which demographics gave more favorable reviews, and the overall sentiment. This is a very useful tool for extracting the main themes out of large quantities of feedback. Link:[Project 4 Repository](StreamlitAppFinal)
